[PUB-1039] Update Live Objects README section (#1969)
ably/ably-js: README.md

The LiveObjects plugin is developed as part of the Ably client library, so it is available for the same versions as the Ably client library itself. It also means that it follows the same semantic versioning rules as they were defined for [the Ably client library](#for-browsers). For example, to lock into a major or minor version of the LiveObjects plugin, you can specify a specific version number such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/liveobjects.umd.min-2.js for all v2._ versions, or https://cdn.ably.com/lib/liveobjects.umd.min-2.4.js for all v2.4._ versions, or you can lock into a single release with https://cdn.ably.com/lib/liveobjects.umd.min-2.4.0.js. Note you can load the non-minified version by omitting `.min` from the URL such as https://cdn.ably.com/lib/liveobjects.umd-2.js.

For more information about the Live Objects product, see the [Ably Live Objects documentation](https://ably.com/docs/products/liveobjects).

#### State Channel Modes

> To use Live Objects feature, clients must attach to a channel with the correct channel mode:

Reviewer: Are we calling it `Live Objects` or `LiveObjects`? I think we should use a consistent name, so probably `LiveObjects`

Author: right, it's the `LiveObjects` _product_, but sometimes the readme explicitly refers to the _objects_ in LiveObjects, which are just `Live Objects`.
I've gone through all of the "liveobjects"/"live objects" uses to double check which they are referring to and update accordingly:
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85..2065e11c8b39e421b3289cad832930814d03a618

- `state_subscribe` - required to retrieve Live Objects state for a channel
- `state_publish` - required to create new and modify existing Live Objects on a channel

```typescript
const client = new Ably.Realtime({
  // authentication options
  ...options,
  plugins: { LiveObjects },
});
const channelOptions = { modes: ['state_subscribe', 'state_publish'] };
const channel = client.channels.get('my_live_objects_channel', channelOptions);
const liveObjects = channel.liveObjects;
```

The authentication token must include corresponding capabilities for the client to interact with Live Objects.

> #### Obtaining the Root Object

Reviewer 2: `Obtaining` is a really convoluted word. Where possible we should prefer the simplest possible language. How about "getting" or "accessing" ?

Author: Changed to "getting" as it is also used in "getting presence:"
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

> The root object represents the top-level entry point for Live Objects state within a channel. It acts as a container for all nested data structures and must be retrieved in order to interact with the existing state.

Author: updated 👍 
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();
```

> The root object is always a `LiveMap` instance and serves as the starting point for storing and organizing Live Objects state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The root object is a `LiveMap` instance and serves as the starting point for storing and organizing Live Objects state.
```

Author: changed
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

#### Live Object Types

> Live Objects support two primary data structures:

Reviewer 3: currently

> Live Objects currently support two primary data structures:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Live Objects currently supports two primary data structures; LiveMap and LiveCounter.
```

Author: changed
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

`LiveMap` - A key/value map data structure, similar to a JavaScript `Map`, where all changes are synchronized across clients in realtime. It allows you to store primitive values and other Live Objects, enabling a composable state.

You can use `LiveMap` as follows:

```typescript
// root object is a LiveMap
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();

// set a key on map
await root.set('name', 'Alice');
// get a value for a key
console.log(root.get('name')); // output: 'Alice'

// remove a key
await root.remove('name');
console.log(root.get('name')); // output: undefined

// different data types are supported
await root.set('foo', 'str');
await root.set('bar', 1);
await root.set('baz', true);
await root.set('qux', new Uint8Array([21, 31]));
// as well as other live objects
const counter = await liveObjects.createCounter();

> await root.get('quux', counter);

Reviewer: Should this be `root.set` ?

console.log(root.size()); // output: 5
```

`LiveCounter` - A counter that can be incremented or decremented and is synchronized across clients in realtime

You can use `LiveCounter` as follows:

```typescript
const counter = await liveObjects.createCounter();

// get current value of a counter
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 0

// increments and decrements
await counter.increment(5);
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 5

await counter.decrement(2);
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 3
```

#### Subscribing to Updates

Subscribing to updates on Live Objects allows you to receive changes made by other clients in realtime. Since multiple clients may modify the same Live Objects state, subscribing ensures that your application reacts to external updates as soon as they are received.

> Additionally, mutation methods such as `LiveMap.set`, `LiveCounter.increment`, and `LiveCounter.decrement` do not directly edit the current state of the object locally. Instead, they send the intended operation to the Ably system, and the change is applied to the local object only when the corresponding realtime operation is echoed back to the client. This means that the state you retrieve immediately after a mutation may not reflect the latest updates yet.

Reviewer 3: Can you clarify this? If you `await` a mutation, the local state does not have that mutation applied after completion of the operation?

Author: Correct, the mutation operation might not be applied after we `await` the mutation call, as this only awaits the `ACK` message for the mutation operation. It will be applied only once the operation is echoed back to the client.  

We discussed this with Mike in this [DR](https://ably.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/LOB/pages/3526950914/LODR-024+Realtime+Client+write-only+internal+spec?focusedCommentId=3539140626), and considered the possibility of applying the mutation client-side when we receive an `ACK` message (meaning it would be applied locally after `await`). It needed more thought (as we rely on applying messages from a given site in regional order), and it was put on hold for the time being.

Reviewer 4: The current behaviour is consistent with that of presence in the core SDKs, right? e.g. if you call `presence.get()` immediately after the completion of `presence.enter()`, you might not see yourself in the presence set.

Author: > The current behaviour is consistent with that of presence in the core SDKs, right? e.g. if you call presence.get() immediately after the completion of presence.enter(), you might not see yourself in the presence set.

I believe it matches the behavior of presence, yes. However, this is currently the case for LiveObjects due to technical limitations, as we do not yet have a way to apply operations client-side outside of the regional order. Eventually, we would like to apply the operation immediately after receiving acknowledgment (on receiving `ACK`) that the operation message was received by the server, or ideally, even optimistically before sending the message to the realtime system (which would enable a synchronous mutation API).

> To ensure you react to state changes at the correct moment, you can subscribe to updates on all Live Objects as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can subscribe to updates on all Live Objects using subscription listeners as follows:
```

I've added "subscription listeners" here because later way say you can de-register "subscription listeners" without mentioning them before. Obviously you can see from the code, but adding clarity here.

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();

// subscribe to updates on a LiveMap
root.subscribe((update: LiveMapUpdate) => {
  console.log('LiveMap updated:', update);
});

// subscribe to updates on a LiveCounter
const counter = await liveObjects.createCounter();
counter.subscribe((update: LiveCounterUpdate) => {
  console.log('LiveCounter updated:', update);
});

// perform operations on LiveMap and LiveCounter
await root.set('name', 'Alice');

> // LiveMap updated: { update: { name: 'updated' } }

Reviewer 2: **question**: should the update event carry the new value as well as the key that was modified?

Author: the current API only exposes the name of the key that got updated/deleted. it is trivial at this point to just call `root.get(key)` to get the new value.

a bit more useful could be exposing both the previous and teh new value, just like we do with `ChannelStateChange`, but  currently it's not implemented

Author: created https://ably.atlassian.net/browse/PUB-1207 to track this

const { unsubscribe } = root.subscribe(() => {});
unsubscribe();

// call .unsubscribe with a listener reference
const listener = () => {};
root.subscribe(listener);
root.unsubscribe(listener);

// deregister all listeners using .unsubscribeAll
root.unsubscribeAll();
```

#### Creating New Objects

New `LiveMap` and `LiveCounter` instances can be created as follows:

```typescript
const counter = await liveObjects.createCounter(123); // with optional initial counter value
const map = await liveObjects.createMap({ key: 'value' }); // with optional initial map entries
```

To persist them within the Live Objects state, they must be assigned to a parent `LiveMap` that is connected to the root object through the object hierarchy:

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();

const counter = await liveObjects.createCounter();
const map = await liveObjects.createMap({ counter });
const outerMap = await liveObjects.createMap({ map });

await root.set('outerMap', outerMap);

// resulting structure:
// root (LiveMap)
// └── outerMap (LiveMap)
//     └── map (LiveMap)
//         └── counter (LiveCounter)
```

#### Batch Operations

> Batching allows multiple operations to be grouped into a single message that is sent to the Ably service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Batching allows multiple operations to be grouped into a single message that is sent to the Ably service. This allows batched operations to be applied atomically together.
```

Author: added
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

```typescript
await liveObjects.batch((ctx) => {
  const root = ctx.getRoot();

  root.set('foo', 'bar');
  root.set('baz', 42);

  const counter = root.get('counter');
  counter.increment(5);
});

console.log(root.get('foo')); // output: 'bar'
console.log(root.get('baz')); // output: 42
console.log(root.get('counter').value()); // output: 5
```

#### Lifecycle Events

Live Objects emit lifecycle events to signal critical state changes, such as synchronization progress and object deletions.

**Synchronization Events** - the `syncing` and `synced` events notify when the Live Objects state is being synchronized with the Ably service. These events can be useful for displaying loading indicators, preventing user edits during synchronization, or triggering application logic when the data was loaded for the first time.

```typescript
liveObjects.on('syncing', () => {
  console.log('Live Objects state is syncing...');
  // Example: Show a loading indicator
});

liveObjects.on('synced', () => {
  console.log('Live Objects state has been synced.');
  // Example: Hide loading indicator
});
```

> **Object Deletion Events** - objects that have been orphaned for a long period (i.e., not connected to the state tree graph by being set as a key in a map related to the root) will eventually be deleted. Once a Live Object is deleted, it can no longer be interacted with. You should avoid accessing its data or try to update its value and should remove all references to the deleted object in your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Object Deletion Events** - objects that have been orphaned for a long period (i.e., not connected to the state tree graph by being set as a key in a map related to the root) will eventually be deleted. Once a Live Object is deleted, it can no longer be interacted with. You should avoid accessing its data or trying to update its value and you should remove all references to the deleted object in your application.
```

Reviewer: Also maybe `related to the root` -> `accessible from the root map object`.

Author: changed both
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();
const counter = root.get('counter');

counter.on('deleted', () => {
  console.log('Live Object has been deleted.');
  // Example: Remove references to the object from the application
});
```

To unsubscribe from lifecycle events:

```typescript
// same API for channel.liveObjects and LiveObject instances
// use dedicated off function from the .on call
const { off } = liveObjects.on('synced', () => {});
off();

// call .off with an event name and a listener reference
const listener = () => {};
liveObjects.on('synced', listener);
liveObjects.off('synced', listener);

// deregister all listeners using .offAll
liveObjects.offAll();
```

#### Typing Live Objects

You can provide your own TypeScript typings for Live Objects state by providing a globally defined `LiveObjectsTypes` interface.

```typescript
// file: ably.config.d.ts
import { LiveCounter, LiveMap } from 'ably';

type MyCustomRoot = {
  map: LiveMap<{
    foo: string;
    counter: LiveCounter;
  }>;
};

declare global {
  export interface LiveObjectsTypes {
    root: MyCustomRoot;
  }
}
```

> This will enable IntelliSense support when interacting with the Live Objects API:

Reviewer: I think `IntelliSense` is a microsoft-specific concept, perhaps `code completion and editor hints` ?

Author: changed
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/54a5125fcd43b43948ca982f7a1ed89c538cec50..3ca50035284754bf9cac21af0de744a0ae97ef85

const channel = client.channels.get('my_live_objects_channel', channelOptions);
const liveObjects = channel.liveObjects;
```

The authentication token must include corresponding capabilities for the client to interact with LiveObjects.

#### Getting the Root Object

The root object represents the top-level entry point for LiveObjects state within a channel. It gives access to all other nested Live Objects.

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();
```

The root object is a `LiveMap` instance and serves as the starting point for storing and organizing LiveObjects state.

#### Live Object Types

LiveObjects currently supports two primary data structures; `LiveMap` and `LiveCounter`.

`LiveMap` - A key/value map data structure, similar to a JavaScript `Map`, where all changes are synchronized across clients in realtime. It allows you to store primitive values and other Live Objects, enabling a composable state.

You can use `LiveMap` as follows:

```typescript
// root object is a LiveMap
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();

// set a key on map
await root.set('name', 'Alice');
// get a value for a key

> console.log(root.get('name')); // output: 'Alice'

Reviewer 4: I get the point that we're trying to make in demonstrating this API, but it might be a bit misleading given that, as you say later, updates are not immediately reflected in the local state.

Author: Yeah, I wasn't sure about the best way to demonstrate the API here, but I agree that we should minimize confusion as much as possible.

See https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/2065e11c8b39e421b3289cad832930814d03a618..2f5a07832c6227566cc4cd45cf6e96e096e90b3b, where I've updated the snippets to focus on showcasing the methods (with synchronous methods first) without displaying expected output values. This should now give a more guidance-like feel rather than being a literal example of the expected behavior.

Author: And did the same for `batch` method example:
https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/50e40ef4f3dcf227b17e75b9984f49c0e293c402..54c1c607d902aeba2de375f2d0b081f286ef710a

// get current value of a counter
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 0

// increments and decrements
await counter.increment(5);
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 5

await counter.decrement(2);
console.log(counter.value()); // output: 3
```

#### Subscribing to Updates

Subscribing to updates on Live Objects allows you to receive changes made by other clients in realtime. Since multiple clients may modify the same Live Objects state, subscribing ensures that your application reacts to external updates as soon as they are received.

Additionally, mutation methods such as `LiveMap.set`, `LiveCounter.increment`, and `LiveCounter.decrement` do not directly edit the current state of the object locally. Instead, they send the intended operation to the Ably system, and the change is applied to the local object only when the corresponding realtime operation is echoed back to the client. This means that the state you retrieve immediately after a mutation may not reflect the latest updates yet.

You can subscribe to updates on all Live Objects using subscription listeners as follows:

```typescript
const root = await liveObjects.getRoot();

// subscribe to updates on a LiveMap

> root.subscribe((update: LiveMapUpdate) => {

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could make it clearer that the user does not _need_ to look at the contents of the `update`; i.e. that they can just re-read the entire `LiveMap` or `LiveCounter` if they wish?

Author: updated in https://github.com/ably/ably-js/compare/2065e11c8b39e421b3289cad832930814d03a618..2f5a07832c6227566cc4cd45cf6e96e096e90b3b, to be more explicit that you can just read the value in the callback directly.
